[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
now we're gonna talk about Iteration.
We talked about adding things and
taking things out,
what about if we wanna just like,
loop through the entire object and
get out those values and
take a look at that property, so.
Mm-hm?
>> Speaker 2: A question came up.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: In the chat room.
If size is a string but
you assign it a value that's a number,
does it become an integer?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Wait one more time?
>> Speaker 2: If size is a string but then
you assign it a value that's a number,
does it then become an integer?
Or.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right, so
are we talking about here?
>> Speaker 2: Right
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This,
this is a number.
>> Speaker 2: Right, but
if it's that word that's a string there,
I think they're asking that if you
were to assign it a number does it-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Like this?
>> Speaker 2: Right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No, then it would just
be a string that happens to have a number,
a character that's a number inside.
>> Speaker 3: I think the question he's
asking is, if you set it as a string and
then later you set that same property
to an integer, it will change its type.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
Yeah, it will change.
>> Speaker 3: I think
that's what he's asking.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
so if we said box.size.
So we set it here as 9 and
then we said box.size equals 9.
Or whatever, you know, whatever.
Then, and we said, like, type of,
type, type of box.size,
that would return, return string.
Did I answer the question?
>> Speaker 2: Yep.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
So back to looping.
So, we wanna loop through our object and
look at what's inside.
And so, we have a handy,
what should I call this?
We, I mean we have a loop for a four n
loop and this loop is special for objects.
Which is great because everything in
JavaScripts an object, so it works for
almost anything.
So here, we have a loop that
is looping through our box.
Some key words here for our loop, for
this particular loop, there are tons of
different loops and there's like six
different loops or so, in JavaScript.
This one in particular,
there's two key words to keep in mind.
We have for and then we have in and
that's why I call it the for in loop.
Then we also have this var key,
which is a variable that we just create.
And this key,
this variable is going to hold
the value of the property name always.
That's just the way that this loop works.
And then, the other important thing to
keep in mind is where we have box and
that's going to reference our
object we're looping through.
Right, so we have our box up here, and
we're leaping through here in this box.
And so,
knowing what we know about this loop,
what do we think this console.log
is gonna return for us?
>> Speaker 2: It's real, zero.
Funny characters.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: 0,
you mean you can't pronounce this?
I think it's pronounced [SOUND].
I think, that's how you say it.
>> Speaker 2: [SOUND]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [SOUND], yeah.
Cool, so it's going to log
our property names, cool?
So what if we wanted to-
>> Speaker 3: Not necessarily in
that order.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
not necessarily in that order.
There's no guaranteed order in
the objects, so it will come out, however.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] I'm sorry,
it was a little confusing there is, so
is key a kind of reserve word, or
could you have called it anything?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Nope.
We could call it, we call it anything,
it's just a variable.
>> Speaker 2: Right, okay, so
it's not like, as long as it's consistent.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, and so.
Yeah, and so
we tend to see key or prop, but
that's just a convention it
doesn't actually mean anything.
I usually just call it cow, my code.
Just kidding, they don't.
>> Speaker 2: Would it still be valid,
if you did the variable declaration
outside of the four expression?
Okay, and just passing the variable in.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
Cool.
>> Speaker 3: Why is that on the key and
not on the value?
So how does it know that cow
is referring to the key?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cuz
that's just how the loop is.
So that variable,
whatever variable you put here
before the in is gonna be the key.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
The key and so,
you thought it rather, whatever for
the value if you wanna do loop out,
cardboard now and testing?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Totally, and
that will be my next question.
Let's see, who here is really shy?
I'm gonna pick on you.
What about,
you look particularly shy this morning.
If we wanted to print out the value.
So, just like Rich in the front row said.
If we wanted to print out the value,
how would we do that?
So if we wanted to do cardboard,
meow, testing one, two, three.
How we do that?
>> Speaker 4: You're asking me, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, I'm asking you.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, I don't know, I was
literally just playing around with that,
trying to get that exact same
thing here in my editor.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right.
>> Speaker 4: I don't know.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, that's fair.
What about.
What about you, over there.
>> Speaker 5: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
So box, bracket, cow.
Will that work?
>> Speaker 2: Yep.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What about this?
What about purple shirt, front row.
Is that gonna work?
>> Speaker 6: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Why?
>> Speaker 6: If this
bracket is the same as
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's close except for
when?
>> Speaker 2: When it's not.
[LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, what it's not.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 6: When it's not.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, except for
when it's a variable or
a special character or a number.
So in this case, actually,
cow is a variable.
We can see that here,
actually, when we see var cow.
We see that, that's a variable.
So, in this case actually, we can only
use bracket notation for it to work.
Thumbs on, thumbs on that?
Everyone, everyone's gonna have their
thumbs, thumbs in the chat room.
So, a b, lower case b is thumb up.
And a p is thumb down.
I know, chat room doesn't like-
>> Speaker 2: We have
a question in the chat room.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: And this for
loop, he was just asking if
you should be checking box that has
own property, before locking in?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's why when we get
to our functional program,
we're going to talk about looping
using underscore and why it's better,
because you don't have to do a check,
like that.
But yeah, that's a good point.
Cool.
>> Speaker 7: Bianca?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 7: In that second assignment,
box bracket 0,
I'm still struggling with that.
What is that actually doing, again?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This one here?
>> Speaker 7: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so what that's
doing is It is creating a property zero.
And so, you're passing it in there.
Zero is a number, so
you don't need to put quotes around it.
But underneath,
it's gonna be running two strings.
So you can kind of imagine it,
to say like this.
>> Speaker 7: So
it's not looking at A 0 with index and
returning that material property.
That's what I'm struggling with.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sort of like,
you're thinking of an array.
>> Speaker 7: Mm-hm, yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
no, no, this is different.
And then also with an array, we'll talk
about that after the first exercise.
That these things still work for
a raise and
that the zeroith property in an array
is actually just a property name,
it actually isn't paying attention to
the fact that it's the first one or not,
it's actually like, zero colon value.
In this case, meow.
But yeah,
it has nothing to do with the order.
>> Speaker 2: They're just asking,
if you could explain again,
why dot notation wouldn't work?
For that console.log.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure.
Yeah, so
dot notation wouldn't work,
because key is a variable name.
And since it's a variable,
we have to always use bracket notation.
Because we want our interpreter
to look up that variable,
instead of just using it as a string.
So if I did put quotes around it,
what would happen is we're looking for
a property now called key
on box not on variable.
So the variable key in this case,
in this loop is going to hold
different property names.
For all the property names and
the object each time.
So this object has three properties,
so it's gonna loop three times.
And every time, key is gonna hold
the value of the property name.
So the first time, it might hold material.
The second time it might hold zero, but
it's gonna be stringfied zero, actually.
And then a third time,
it's gonna hold srilona.
That's how you pronounce this third one,
I think.
My accent's kinda off, but.
>> Speaker 2: Do you leave
the bar on the four loop?
So starting out [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You should always use
far, because it keeps it from
being a [INAUDIBLE] variable.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But,
it wouldn't break it if you didn't do it,
but it might interfere with other.
If you have a bunch of for
in loops and they all have key, and
they're all global,
it could do some weird things.
Potentially.
Yeah, cool.
Sure.
>> Speaker 8: I actually get three
undefined's when I run that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Really?
With the quotes around it?
>> Speaker 8: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
cuz we don't have a property key,
at
>> Speaker 8: [COUGH] In the box.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: In the box.
So the quotes around it is an example
of how you shouldn't do it.
>> Speaker 8: All right [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
without the quotes is an example
of how you should do it.
>> Speaker 8: Great.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
Why do you think that there's
three undefined's though?
>> Speaker 8: Cuz it's going through each
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 8: Property-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Totally.
>> Speaker 8: Of each one of them.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Even though we're not
doing anything with those properties,
it's still gonna loop three times.
Even though you're looking up that quotes.
>> Speaker 8: Because if while doesn't
know if there is one called key, so
it's gotta go through it to look for it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Hm, it's just gonna
loop No matter what it's gonna loop three
times, cuz that's just
the mechanics of a loop.
It's gonna loop through all of
the properties on the object.
Cool.
>> Speaker 3: So you're iterating all the
properties, but you're always looking for
the same thing.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right.
>> Speaker 3: But if I was looking for
key-
>> Speaker 10: But if we're looking for
key in quotes How does that loop
know that there isn't
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The loop doesn't
know anything.
>> Speaker 10: Right.
So it goes and
it goes to the first property and
it checks to see if that one is quote key.
It says, undefined.
So it has to, it has to iterate
until it finds something.
>> Speaker 3: Right, but
you're not comparing for
key, you're just iterating
all the properties.
And do something with
whatever that property is.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Whatever
you're doing in this block,
the loop doesn't know about.
>> Speaker 3: But if she called it
quote key or quote hello world,
it wouldn't have mattered.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
Cool.
Any more questions?
Check.
>> Speaker 2: [COUGH] I think that
another question,
are you also using bracket notation
because one of the properties is a number,
or is it just because of the variable.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Just
because of the variable.
Because again, just one last thing.
If we put quotes around it or
we use .key,
it's only gonna be looking for
a property called key on the object,
which we don't have, right?
And that's why we need
to have the brackets.